In honor of the veterans who have served our country both past and present for a national
bank, a Franklin Family Community Bank proudly sponsors veterans of the Valley.
Since 1862, First National has provided local decision making and accessibility, as well
as banking products and services to Bras's Valley citizens.
us on another edition of Veterans of the Valley. Today we're going to be doing something a bit different
from our standard program. We will be talking about Project Hold. Project Hold is the City of
College Stations Historic Online Library Database. They are archiving the history of College Station
and the surrounding areas for everyone to access and enjoy at hold.cs.gov.
With us today is Ann Boykin, Project Coordinator for Project Hold. And thank you for being with us.
Thank you, Kyle, and thanks to Tom for letting us come in here.
Give us a little bit of background on Project Hold.
It started just a few years ago when we had done a series of oral histories and people decided
that what are we going to do with it now? Where do we put it? And the City did not have the
facilities or the funding to have a museum. So we already were using software to archive our
standard documents within the city. So we're using that to put our documents online.
So you just decided to make it digital and give access to everyone, which is a great idea.
And even though we're more or less focusing on veterans and military type applications, Project Hold
is far more reaching to that. It covers the broad spectrum of everything that's going on in our area.
Everything. If you have a laundry ticket from 1934 or 1968, it might be interesting to us.
We're open to anything and everything. The documents are daily life, especially.
Right. You were kind enough to give us a pretty good broad spectrum of pictures that we're going
to look at here. And a lot of these pictures, some of our viewers have already seen because those
veterans have been on the show, but there's such good pictures we want to kind of re-show them again
and let them see exactly what they're missing and what they find out by just going to your website.
So let's go ahead and get to the pictures if we could.
Great. Tell us what this picture is about. And obviously a lot of people should maybe be able to
recognize this area. This is a parade downtown Brian. I'm sure you recognize a few of the
buildings there on Main Street. And they were doing parades and kind of promotions to hopefully get
more volunteers to go across the World War One. And I think we talked about this earlier from
the perspective of where this picture was taken. Maybe this person would write about where the
Palace Theater is now. I think so. Looking back towards that intersection right here. So this
is probably Main Street and I can't remember what that cross street is.
20 seconds. Yeah, I think it might be 26.
26. Correct. Yeah. Around 1914.
Oh, okay. And this is another one of the gatherings. This is a tank from World War One. Everybody
standing appropriately far back from it. And the peak, the peak building and the right of your
screen is a- Down the lower right. Yeah, lower right is the Aston building.
Okay, so that should give everyone a perspective of where they were at there in downtown Brian.
It doesn't look like a paved street to Main Street. It still looks like it's pretty much compressed
dirt right now. Yeah. Okay, let's move on. Tell us who this is. This young man we don't have a name
for. We'd like to have a name for him. If you recognize the photograph, it was just one that was
in a group of photographs that we scanned in and we don't turn anything away. But I thought it
was interesting just his uniform and that they were living in tents. I believe this is maybe North
Africa. If anything, it also gives a shot of for the young people who watch the show. But this is
how pictures kind of looked back in the days. They would put the little borders on them and dress them
up a little bit. But if like Ann said, if anyone knows where this picture came from or who this
gentleman is, feel free to contact. And I'm sure they'd like to put a name to a face.
This is an honorable discharge for Luke Patronella from the Army and from after World War One.
And I believe it's 1918. Okay. And if we go to the next document or the next picture,
there's a little bit of a story between these two pictures. Yeah, he served in World War One and
here he's listed on this listing of gentlemen who served in World War Two who did not make it back.
And Luke Patronella died during World War Two. So he made it through WWI. Right. There are a number
of names that are familiar around this area. Carava was one and I'm going to forget some of them
already. But this was in a book that was given to us and it had documents veterans from Brasis County,
Aggie veterans and African American veterans, which is a rare thing for us to have. Right. Okay.
Speaking of. Yes. And this one is Mr. Thomas. He's also from Brian.
He's also served World War Two. Okay. Do you know if his family is still here in the area?
I believe they are. And this, that was Thomas Calhoun. This young man is Fred Barrell.
And he's also from Brian and served in World War Two. This gentleman was fairly well decorated.
And you would love to have some more history from the African American. This came from that
yearbook that I was talking about. Right. Right.
This gentleman is Alphonse Hardle sitting there in the jeep with the camera. And he had taken
earlier, had taken some pictures of these German children. And it was interesting. And most of the
soldiers, once they got to Germany, were able to buy cameras and start taking photographs. His
son lives here and they gave us this photograph. That's a great picture of the German
children sitting in the back of the American jeep. Yeah.
This is Joe Bruce's group. They were, I believe, when they were in Germany,
or flying over Germany, he was, they were hit and they had to jump out. And as if one
and only John, he said, and ended up in a German POW camp. And he's the one kneeling in front.
I believe a second from the right. Yes. Something like that. And he was a navigator. I believe
on this plane and he's living here today. Okay. This is my dad. He's been on this. That's a
strong German, isn't he? Put this in for fun. Occasionally they got leave and they got to do
something fun. And he went on leave to not just standard army apparel. Not exactly. Not exactly.
But we thought he looked cute. Every time I see this picture, I'm reminded of the old great
movie Brigaduin. Yes. I've got to go rent that tonight just because I see somebody in the
kilt. So, or for all you Braveheart fans. Cowboykin. He was a 14th tank destroyer battalion in the
seventh armored division. That is a great, great picture. This is a sad little picture. This is
a German child with a surrender flag. This was given to us by Bill Adams. And I believe he was
the gentleman who took the photograph. That picture just speaks volumes. Yeah. It really does
with just was just a little girl there in the white flag and the look on her face. If the people
at home can see the look of this little girl's face, it really is. The anticipation and fear and
happiness and everything all rolled into one. You can see in her face that there's a thousand
different emotions going through her little mind right now. Exactly. Or when that picture was taken.
I explained this to her. This is one of our more interesting pieces of memorabilia that we
photographed in the office. Margaret Anthony, who lives here, brought this to us. Her father was in
the CIC, the counterintelligence corps that was in Germany right at the beginning of the occupation.
And this is a piece of the toilet from Hitler's private bath at Eaglesnest.
Just one of your more unusual pieces of memorabilia that you don't see very often and we
thought it'd be interesting to show. And just that piece of memorabilia is actually here in the
Brasis family. Absolutely. Her father, Bernie McClurken, took quite a few photographs when they
first entered Dachau. And this is one of the ovens. Right. Okay, next. This is a great picture.
A great one. This is Kyle's favorite. This is the Normandy Invasion map. This was loaned us from
Dr. Betloth. It was in his book recently. And that basically shows all the movements to the
landing point. This is another one of Bernie McClurken's photographs entering Dachau.
That had to be a strange feeling for those army guys to go into that place for the first time.
Not no point was there. Very much so. And McClurken was instrumental in gathering information that
brought a lot of the Nazi war criminals to trial. A lot of SS and the Gestapo.
This is another great picture just because of the depth of field and it just let people know the
perspective of where they were at. And you're looking way down into a valley. Way down into Oberama
Gow. And these gentlemen Bernie McClurken is also in this photograph. They're on their way walking
up to Eaglesnest. And he's the out of the three gentlemen. He's the one on the far left. Right.
Right. This is Lieutenant Colonel Rudder who is I believe this was taken just immediately after
the Normandy invasion. And surrounded by his troops and looks like they're kind of
relaxing somewhat. So we think possible this was once they had ascended to the top of those
cliffs. Yes. Yes. The kind of gathering and collecting themselves out of Madden. And that is
I guess back then he was Colonel Rudder. And that's Lieutenant Colonel. Yes. Lieutenant Colonel
he circled his head there. Rudder's Rangers. This is another photograph with the
Bernie McClurken. They are walking up to the top of Eaglesnest and they're being escorted by
the gentleman in the center an African-American who was Hitler's elevator operator. Wow.
The very unusual photograph. But we don't know any of the names of these individuals.
Okay. The Kuzlowski's are an interesting couple. They both served in the military and met
towards the end of the war. They've been on the show before. They've been on the show. And she was
a nurse. He was a pilot. And she's in this as almost like a mash. I think they had mash in World
War II. But she's the nurse in the background of this surgical operation. Okay. And she's in the
foreground here with her back to us offloading a patient from one of the planes.
And she's here in this group of Russian soldiers. This has taken close to the Elp River.
That's her in between the two Russians. Yeah. Very interesting photograph. That's a great picture.
And this is her now husband Kuzlowski's shaving. I was thinking daily pictures. How do they
manage? What do they do just shaving and getting dressed for the day? Do we know if they already
met like when this picture was taken. Had he already met her? I think they met briefly at a dance
early on. They never saw each other until at the end of the war where they got back together.
I believe that's the story. Okay. But that's basically getting his morning shave. The best he can.
Right. And here he is in the cockpit of C. I'm going to forget it. 21. C-47. Okay. Yeah.
Given the Aggie thumbs up there. These are two local girls. Miss Landis and this how Dal. They
are mailing female to Carol Landis's dad. This is in front of the post office there at Northgate.
And the post office is still there. So if you look real close you can see the windows and make out
the building. That's the post office that's over at Northgate. This is a little bit of the home front.
And here is Carl Landis. He's in front of his house on Dexter. And he and his wife have both
passed away in the last couple of years. Do we know is that house on Dexter's? It's still there.
Oh yeah. Still there. She was my third grade teacher.
This is a Christmas card from the Pentagon. I believe this is around probably maybe 43 or so.
Just an interesting, a wartime Christmas card with kind of a contradiction in terms there.
Merry Christmas from the Pentagon. Okay. This is a female. A lot of people haven't seen
the female before. Letters were handwritten on special paper and then they photographed it,
reduced it, folded it up and carried it over on planes so that it didn't take up so much
space and it didn't weigh so much. But it's kind of an interesting concept. This is probably the
first digital they were thinking of emails. That's right. That's right. That's pretty much.
Precursor of email. Okay. So that's what a standard email looked like back then.
And V was for victory. Exactly. Who's this gentleman? Amelia Salazar and he was working here on campus
in the MSC and also at Sabisa and he left to join the service, came back and went back to work
at the MSC and in Sabisa. So Denise, Judy, came back and I believe you said this was at Camp Bulls.
Yes. And this was given to us by his daughter who she gave us quite a few pieces of memorabilia
from their family, Dorothy Hernandez. Is the rest of the family still here? Yes. Okay.
These are the ration books where you had to use ration stamps and some money to buy for things.
A lot of people have the impression that a stamp, I mean you turn into stamp and you got the
item but you also had to pay a little bit of money for sugar, coffee, butter, gasoline.
A lot of the younger generations have never seen this type of thing. Not exactly. All they're used to
is their Master Carter Visa. That's right. Or their Aggie Buks or more. Yes.
And this is our local veterans group in the World War II. We don't have identification for the
gentlemen but... Which is another good reason. If someone out there... Yeah. Recognize someone or
anyone in the photograph. If you're a neighbor, if you're your uncle, your brother, please give
Anna Call and let them know that the third guy from the right was my uncle Billiard. Whoever it might be.
Absolutely. We need to put some names to faces. This is Catherine Parker. She's from Brian and she
was out at a Vendor Field studying to be a wasp and training. And I don't know any more about her
story. I would love to have more information about her story. But the son of the commander of
the Vendor Field was... gave us a yearbook with a lot of the wasp information. And we were talking
the other day about... The mascot for the wasp was the Fiefinella, which was correct. Cartoon
character wasp that was drawn by Disney for... It was actually created by Walt Disney himself for
that purpose. And I guess that was his way of making his contribution. And this is an
Avenger flying over and you're going to know this better than I am, Kyle. It's over the
Magerrill Islands, the Quadro on a toll, which is out in the South Pacific, which is where I was at
for about two and a half, three years of working for Armed Forces Radio and Television.
Magerrill's great thousands of islands out there. And that does bring back a lot of memories.
I'm always amazed when I look at this at how small that plane is. And this is what the the wasp
for training to fly. And this is a group of civil air patrol out at Kultr Field here. And the...
I don't know if you can see it, the hangar in the background is still out there at Kultr Field.
Up there at the top right, it looks like maybe the top of a quonset hut. Yes, that's what I used to
do. Do we have names for these? I don't know names for these either. Okay, ladies and gentlemen,
out there. Your work is cut out for you. We have lots of names to put to those faces.
This is the first Aggie Muster on Anzio. On Anzio? Yeah. I believe it's 1943. I think so.
Do we know where this picture originated from? Or who donated it? No, I do not.
Same thing, no way to put names to the faces. Right.
Same thing like that. Okay. A&M may have something in their archives that would identify them. Right.
That's a great picture also. Especially if we could find the names of those faces. Now this is...
This is an interesting photo. This is Floyd Gravit. His sister,
Joanna Yeager lives here. And she gave us an opportunity to scan in her whole scrapbook on her
three brothers who all served, two were killed in action. And this brother Floyd was a Japanese
prisoner of war for a number of years. So I didn't even know if he was alive for about three years.
And I was commenting earlier that it looks like a pretty nice bunk there and nice wooden floor.
It looks clean. He looks pretty healthy. But this was obviously at the beginning of his
turn. The very beginning of internment. And he was moved around. Right. So the conditions I would
imagine got worse. And he was... I have seen a photograph of him when he came home. He was
very thin and very undernourished. But for me to just pick, you would think,
she's... Prison Wars don't have it that bad, but they really did. Right. These are the type of
letters that his family would get occasionally that were written by the Imperial Japanese...
You can see that at the top. I don't know what you would do if you were at home and you got a
telegram from the Imperial Japanese Army. Right. And what they were writing, he knew, was contrived.
It wasn't necessarily a normal letter from your son. You know. Right. Right. You can just tell
by the verbiage in the water. Right. But it would not have been his language. Right.
Western Union telegram. Telegrams went back and forth. And my uncle used to send telegrams all
the time to my grandmother and she would nearly have a heart attack. Because Western Union was,
you know, if you got a Western Union then something wrong had happened. Something bad had happened.
But it was the major, quickest way of communicating. Right.
This is James Elbun Jr., who's still living here in college station. He is in this photograph there
on the road to Bajio, in the Philippines, Luzon. And... What's one of his he in this picture? He is in
the middle. Well, he's the one, I think, with his leg crossed, leaning up against the
Jeep or whatever that is. And this was a very narrow road and a very, very steep cliff.
Okay. Now we've jumped, obviously, now we're in color. So this is more or less along the
Vietnam area. Right. This is at the end of the Vietnam war. And this is Bill Brattie and his
group, Bill Brattie's the red-haired one on the back left. He was class of 71 here at A&M. He
also attended Consolidate schools. He was a Cobra trainer at that time. And this is Bill again
in Alaska years later. I was saying post-Vietnam. Yeah. Quite a bit. Things had changed considerably.
His group helped form the unit that rescued the hostages in Toronto. Oh. Okay.
But obviously this is a totally different setting. He was doing some other flying. And this
Russ Harvel, his back row, second from the right. He's the one holding the grenade launcher for
other guys at home. Yeah. That recognized that. That recognized that. And this is in Vietnam.
He's with his patrol there. Russ volunteered in, I believe, 67 to go to Vietnam.
And what his word about now is he sees this here. No. He lives here in in Brian. Okay. So he's here.
He's here. He's alive and kicking. The Harvel family has quite a few, there are members that live
here in College Station in Brian. This is one of my favorite pictures. This is General Woody B. Kyle,
the Kyle Field family. Kyle Field family. And who is that slanky guy to his left? Yeah.
That's what caught my eye. John Wayne was filming the Green Berets in Hwy Vietnam. And that's where Kyle.
So this would have been early 60s. Mid early 60s. Yes. Yes. But I thought it was interesting because
you know, John Wayne was the, you know, major military supporter. And I would have expected him to
take this picture and be there right with the guys. Right. That's another great picture.
And this is the grandson of Will and the light kitty, Worley Andrew Garza. He is in Baghdad in one of the
palaces. I believe that's one of Saddam's palaces. One of his many palaces that they took over.
Yeah. This young man served 15 months. He's in a computer group. And he came home in December.
And just left recently to go back for another 15 months. So he's back on tour again. He's back on tour.
And this is a small group. This is a sniper group. The young man on the second from the right.
The striped on his face. Yeah. Sergeant Mark Michelle is our adoptable petun soldier. His mother and I
were been in school since first grade together. And his grandfather was our family doctor, Dr. Osi Cooper.
So we adopted this Tom. I believe that's Tom's doctor. Yes. J.F. Cooper is Tom. I think he is.
Brother, the team of brothers. Right. Very prominent family here in college station in Bryan.
But Sergeant Mark Michelle has been stationed in Iraq for 15 months. And we adopted them about a
year ago, October. And he is going to be presented, has been presented with a presentation at City Council last
week. So anyway, he's a really neat young man. And we expect to see a whole lot more of him. He'll be in
the service. I think another, another year and a half. And their station didn't last. And this is his
group again. He's in the front row left. The 509th infantry. Okay. The nice group picture. Yes.
And I take it. And obviously if you're a sniper, you'll know this. But obviously there's something
about wearing the sunglasses. It all has to do with the sunglasses. Who's that behind those
ray bands? Yeah. Okay. That was those are some really great pictures. Thank you for bringing them.
Oh, you're welcome. I enjoy sharing them with people. So what other things? Obviously, we just
focused on this. But like I said earlier, project told covers a really, really broad. Oh, absolutely.
We have talked about last summer. We focused on the 60s. And we have an exhibit that's going to come
down soon at the conference center. And but we scanned in a lot of photographs from from that era. And
it doesn't seem like that long ago, but it was 40 years ago. Right. It's scary. But it was my class. But
we have just a wide variety. We have a lot of infrastructure, city of college,
and construction photos when city hall was being built with the ground breaking for that. And
anything and everything. Right. Arts and culture. Yeah. What would someone need to do if they've
found that old box up in the attic or something that their granddad passed away and they're
looking through all this stuff. And my gosh, it's a shame that they're just going to hopefully not
just get rid of it. If they plan to get rid of it, no matter what they do, let me see it first.
I want to go through it first. And we can scan things in and give it back to them. Right. Now you
don't keep the original. We don't keep the original. They can have them back. And we're also
encouraging people to, especially if they have military veterans to participate in the
the veterans history project through the Library of Congress. Right. And they will accept
originals and things like that. Yeah, but we can talk to them about that. And we also have
just ways of documenting their family's history. And then every member of their family can
be online and see the same things they can share it with them. Okay. Well, uh, what about contact
information? You can contact me at city hall 764-3491 and also on our website. There's the website
hold.cstx.gov and uh, combine, see me at city hall. I'd love to visit with people. That's
what I'm saying. You should push all the pictures aside. I do. I push all the stacks. Go to
go to the side and we just sit and visit. We've only got a few minutes left in your last words.
There is a Vietnam Veterans Convention that's going to be at the Hilton February 2nd.
And you can contact me if you want more information about that. We're encouraging the Vietnam
Veterans to participate so that we can document their stories as well. Absolutely. And thank you
for being here. It's been a great show. I'm sure everyone got a lot of good information.
It's a lot of great old pictures. Good. Do we just keep it's great? Good. We'll do it again
sometime. Absolutely. Next second pictures. We'll we'll scan them in and do it again. Great. Thank you.
Thank you for being with us. You know, back in 1986, the city of college station had the
foresight to establish the historic preservation committee or the HPC. The HPC sponsors the
exploring history lunch lecture series on the third Wednesdays of the month. And this popular
and informative series is held from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the college station conference center,
which is located at 1300 George Bush Drive. And the luncheon is only a mere $5 per person.
For more information, you can contact Ann Boykin at a Boykin at cstx.gov or give Anna call at 979-764-3491.
I'm sure she'd be glad to give you all the information you need. For all of us here at KAMU,
their production crew and Tom Terbivill, I'm Kyle Netterville saying so long for now.
Until the next roll call for veterans of the Valley.
In honor of the veterans who have served our country both past and present first national bank,
a Franklin family community bank proudly sponsors veterans of the Valley. Since 1862,
first national has provided local decision making and accessibility as well as banking products
and services to Bras's Valley citizens.
I'm going to be at the Hilton February.
I'm going to be at the conference.
I believe that's Tom.
Sure, in the background is still
He's also from Brian, also served World War II.
A lot of these pictures, some family community back there.
Thanks for joining us on another edition of Veterans.